<!--
This file is auto-generated by scripts/functions/generate-function-docs.js.
Do not edit manually.
-->
---
title: Functions
---

# Functions

The functions documented below are provided by WPGraphQL to extend the schema or interact with the GraphQL API.

## Registration

- [`get_graphql_register_action`](/functions/get_graphql_register_action)

  Determine when to register types.

- [`register_graphql_admin_notice`](/functions/register_graphql_admin_notice)

  Registers an admin notice to display on WPGraphQL plugin screens.

- [`register_graphql_connection`](/functions/register_graphql_connection)

  Given a config array for a connection, this registers a connection by creating all appropriate fields and types for the connection

- [`register_graphql_connection_where_arg`](/functions/register_graphql_connection_where_arg)

  Adds an input field to the Connection Where Args between the provided 'From' Type Name and 'To' Type Name.

- [`register_graphql_connection_where_args`](/functions/register_graphql_connection_where_args)

  Adds several input fields to the Connection Where Args between the provided 'From' Type Name and 'To' Type Name.

- [`register_graphql_edge_field`](/functions/register_graphql_edge_field)

  Adds a field to the Connection Edge between the provided 'From' Type Name and 'To' Type Name.

- [`register_graphql_edge_fields`](/functions/register_graphql_edge_fields)

  Adds several fields to the Connection Edge between the provided 'From' Type Name and 'To' Type Name.

- [`register_graphql_enum_type`](/functions/register_graphql_enum_type)

  Given a Type Name and a $config array, this adds an EnumType to the TypeRegistry

- [`register_graphql_field`](/functions/register_graphql_field)

  Given a Type Name, Field Name, and a $config array, this adds a Field to a registered Type in the TypeRegistry

- [`register_graphql_fields`](/functions/register_graphql_fields)

  Given a Type Name and an array of field configs, this adds the fields to the registered type in the TypeRegistry

- [`register_graphql_input_type`](/functions/register_graphql_input_type)

  Given a Type Name and a $config array, this adds an InputType to the TypeRegistry

- [`register_graphql_interface_type`](/functions/register_graphql_interface_type)

  Given a Type Name and a $config array, this adds an Interface Type to the TypeRegistry

- [`register_graphql_interfaces_to_types`](/functions/register_graphql_interfaces_to_types)

  Given a type name and interface name, this applies the interface to the Type.

- [`register_graphql_mutation`](/functions/register_graphql_mutation)

  Given a Mutation Name and Config array, this adds a Mutation to the Schema

- [`register_graphql_object_type`](/functions/register_graphql_object_type)

  Given a Type Name and a $config array, this adds an ObjectType to the TypeRegistry

- [`register_graphql_scalar`](/functions/register_graphql_scalar)

  Given a config array for a custom Scalar, this registers a Scalar for use in the Schema

- [`register_graphql_settings_field`](/functions/register_graphql_settings_field)

  Registers a GraphQL Settings Field

- [`register_graphql_settings_fields`](/functions/register_graphql_settings_fields)

  Registers a series of GraphQL Settings Fields

- [`register_graphql_settings_section`](/functions/register_graphql_settings_section)

  Registers a GraphQL Settings Section

- [`register_graphql_type`](/functions/register_graphql_type)

  Given a Type Name and a $config array, this adds a Type to the TypeRegistry

- [`register_graphql_union_type`](/functions/register_graphql_union_type)

  Given a Type Name and a $config array, this adds an UnionType to the TypeRegistry

- [`rename_graphql_field`](/functions/rename_graphql_field)

  Renames a GraphQL field.

- [`rename_graphql_type`](/functions/rename_graphql_type)

  Renames a GraphQL Type in the Schema.

## Deregistration

- [`deregister_graphql_connection`](/functions/deregister_graphql_connection)

  Given a Connection Name, this removes the connection from the Schema

- [`deregister_graphql_field`](/functions/deregister_graphql_field)

  Given a Type Name and Field Name, this removes the field from the TypeRegistry

- [`deregister_graphql_mutation`](/functions/deregister_graphql_mutation)

  Given a Mutation Name, this removes the mutation from the Schema

- [`deregister_graphql_type`](/functions/deregister_graphql_type)

  Given a Type Name, this removes the type from the entire schema

## Requests and Endpoint

- [`do_graphql_request`](/functions/do_graphql_request)

  Previous access function for running GraphQL queries directly.

- [`graphql`](/functions/graphql)

  Provides a simple way to run a GraphQL query without posting a request to the endpoint.

- [`graphql_get_endpoint`](/functions/graphql_get_endpoint)

  Get the endpoint route for the WPGraphQL API

- [`graphql_get_endpoint_url`](/functions/graphql_get_endpoint_url)

  Return the full url for the GraphQL Endpoint.

- [`graphql_get_nonce`](/functions/graphql_get_nonce)

  Generate a WPGraphQL nonce for cookie-based authentication.

- [`is_graphql_http_request`](/functions/is_graphql_http_request)

  Whether a GraphQL HTTP request is in action or not.

- [`is_graphql_request`](/functions/is_graphql_request)

  Whether a GraphQL request is in action or not.

## Formatting and Validation

- [`graphql_format_field_name`](/functions/graphql_format_field_name)

  Formats the name of a field so that it plays nice with GraphiQL

- [`graphql_format_name`](/functions/graphql_format_name)

  Formats a string for use as a GraphQL name.

- [`graphql_format_type_name`](/functions/graphql_format_type_name)

  Formats the name of a Type so that it plays nice with GraphiQL

- [`is_valid_graphql_name`](/functions/is_valid_graphql_name)

  Check if the name is valid for use in GraphQL

## Settings and Admin

- [`get_graphql_admin_notices`](/functions/get_graphql_admin_notices)

  Get the admin notices registered for the WPGraphQL plugin screens

- [`get_graphql_setting`](/functions/get_graphql_setting)

  Get an option value from GraphQL settings

- [`graphql_debug`](/functions/graphql_debug)

  Given a message and an optional config array
